# Markov_Chain
The problem statement was to implement the Markov Chain model to generate unigrams, bigrams and trigrams for a given author. The author chosen is "Mabie Hamilton Wright".
The code has to be executed from the terminal using the following command:  
	`python MarkovChain.py <author_directory>/ <prob_filename> <results_filename>`

### NOTE: 
1. The author directory must be appended with '/' in the command.
2. The filenames must not be appended with '.txt'. 

**Example command:**  
	`python MarkovChain.py Mabie/ ProbFile ResultsFile`

## Results
One set of the observed sequences randomly generated by the MarkovChain.py is given below:

**Author: Mabie Hamilton Wright**  
Sequence 1: cooperation divine human fields factories shops means nobility work possibilities spiritual education become impressively clear fellowship men trained ways insensible.

Sequence 2: appearances moment large relations man sees day part year year knowing well cannot live without swooned sat horse summer day.

Sequence 3: zeal counting peril hardship great heroic dare suffer achieve serve men love honour owe great deal pessimism found many voices.

Sequence 4: pictures fine painted initial letters may often see ancient books said children yes said nine house youngest upon inquiry however.

Sequence 5: nearly much sea land pity ships might later times alfred great william silent nelson without serious defects temper sometimes character.

Sequence 6: notebook handbook containing remarks various matters lost translated english history e freeman xi cid adapted chronicle cid spanish robert southey.

Sequence 7: thanks four companions embarked ship siegfried helmsman knew tides currents rhine well furnished food wine things needed attended place kept.

Sequence 8: dialogues heart well intelligence must measurably enter life poems describe interpret must identify time race essence provincialism substitution part whole.

Sequence 9: skilled workman insight power books fountain heads mastered thought extinct people much difficult put knowledge put ignorance entered thought world.

Sequence 10: break good campeador reached st pedro de cardena cock crows ere christmas morn streets dumb snow tempest crackles leads ringing.

The above set of sentences was generated for the author “Mabie Hamilton Wright” by considering four books. After examining the sentences above, it can be seen that the words are extracted from different genres of books like spiritual book, philosophical book, history book and maybe a poem about a ship wreck. When observed, there are a few words that are written in Spanish which maybe because the history book is probably a book about history of Spain or the poem might be about Spanish sailors. By looking at an author’s books this way, the types of books that the author writes can be easily determined. Since only four books are considered, it is slightly difficult to determine the kind of author he is. When more books are considered, it becomes clearer as to what type of books the author mostly writes. But, looking at these four books and their sentences generated, it can be said that the author is a versatile author who writes about various aspects of the society.

## Data
The data is given in the folder data.
